Vesting Doc (#1157)
OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/finance.adoc

Author: Good call, added both sections

NOTE: Any assets transferred to this contract will follow the vesting schedule as if they were locked from the beginning of the vesting period. 
As a result, if the vesting has already started, a portion of the newly transferred tokens may become immediately releasable.

NOTE: By setting the duration to 0, it's possible to configure this contract to behave like an asset timelock that holds tokens 
for a beneficiary until a specified date.

[[vesting_schedule]]
=== Vesting Schedule

The {vesting-schedule} trait defines the logic for calculating the vested amount based on a given timestamp. This 
logic is not part of the {vesting-component}, so any contract implementing the {vesting-component} must provide its own 
implementation of the {vesting-schedule} trait.

NOTE: There's a ready-made implementation of the {vesting-schedule} trait available named {linear-vesting-schedule}. 
It incorporates a cliff period by returning 0 vested amount until the cliff ends. After the cliff, the vested amount 
is calculated as directly proportional to the time elapsed since the beginning of the vesting schedule.

=== Usage

> Integrating vesting functionality into a contract requires integrating {vesting-component} and {ownable-component} as dependencies.

Reviewer: A whole lot of integrating integration :) 
```suggestion
The contract should integrate {vesting-component} and {ownable-component} as dependencies.
```

    #[abi(embed_v0)]
    impl OwnableMixinImpl = OwnableComponent::OwnableMixinImpl<ContractState>;
    impl OwnableInternalImpl = OwnableComponent::InternalImpl<ContractState>;

    #[abi(embed_v0)]
    impl VestingImpl = VestingComponent::VestingImpl<ContractState>;
    impl VestingInternalImpl = VestingComponent::InternalImpl<ContractState>;

    #[storage]
    struct Storage {
        #[substorage(v0)]
        ownable: OwnableComponent::Storage,
        #[substorage(v0)]
        vesting: VestingComponent::Storage
    }

    #[event]
    #[derive(Drop, starknet::Event)]
    enum Event {
        #[flat]
        OwnableEvent: OwnableComponent::Event,
        #[flat]
        VestingEvent: VestingComponent::Event
    }

    #[constructor]
    fn constructor(
        ref self: ContractState,
        beneficiary: ContractAddress,
        start: u64,
        duration: u64,
        cliff_duration: u64
    ) {
        self.ownable.initializer(beneficiary);
        self.vesting.initializer(start, duration, cliff_duration);
    }
}
----

A vesting schedule will often follow a custom formula. In such cases, the {vesting-schedule} trait is useful. 

> To support a custom vesting schedule, the implementing contract must provide an implementation of the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support a custom vesting schedule, the contract must provide an implementation of the 
```

= Finance

:vesting-component: xref:api/finance.adoc#VestingComponent[Vesting Component]

> :vesting-schedule: xref:api/finance.adoc#VestingComponent-Vesting-Schedule[Vesting Schedule]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:vesting-schedule: xref:api/finance.adoc#VestingComponent-Vesting-Schedule[VestingSchedule]
```

:ownable-component: xref:api/access.adoc#OwnableComponent[Ownable Component]
:linear-vesting-schedule: xref:api/finance.adoc#LinearVestingSchedule[LinearVestingSchedule]
:calculate_vested_amount: xref:api/finance.adoc#VestingComponent-calculate_vested_amount[calculate_vested_amount]

[[vesting_component]]

> == Vesting Component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Vesting component
```

The {vesting-component} manages the gradual release of ERC-20 tokens to a designated beneficiary based on a predefined vesting schedule. 
The implementing contract must implement the {ownable-component}, where the contract owner is regarded as the vesting beneficiary. 
This structure allows ownership rights of both the contract and the vested tokens to be assigned and transferred.

NOTE: Any assets transferred to this contract will follow the vesting schedule as if they were locked from the beginning of the vesting period. 
As a result, if the vesting has already started, a portion of the newly transferred tokens may become immediately releasable.

NOTE: By setting the duration to 0, it's possible to configure this contract to behave like an asset timelock that holds tokens 
for a beneficiary until a specified date.

[[vesting_schedule]]

> === Vesting Schedule

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Vesting schedule
```

    #[abi(embed_v0)]
    impl VestingImpl = VestingComponent::VestingImpl<ContractState>;
    impl VestingInternalImpl = VestingComponent::InternalImpl<ContractState>;

    #[storage]
    struct Storage {
        #[substorage(v0)]
        ownable: OwnableComponent::Storage,
        #[substorage(v0)]
        vesting: VestingComponent::Storage
    }

    #[event]
    #[derive(Drop, starknet::Event)]
    enum Event {
        #[flat]
        OwnableEvent: OwnableComponent::Event,
        #[flat]
        VestingEvent: VestingComponent::Event
    }

    #[constructor]
    fn constructor(
        ref self: ContractState,
        beneficiary: ContractAddress,
        start: u64,
        duration: u64,
        cliff_duration: u64
    ) {
        self.ownable.initializer(beneficiary);
        self.vesting.initializer(start, duration, cliff_duration);
    }
}
----

A vesting schedule will often follow a custom formula. In such cases, the {vesting-schedule} trait is useful. 
To support a custom vesting schedule, the contract must provide an implementation of the 
{calculate_vested_amount} function based on the desired formula.

> Here’s an example of a vesting wallet contract with a custom {vesting-schedule} implementation, where tokens 
> are vested in a number of steps.
> 
> NOTE: When using a custom {vesting-schedule} implementation, the {linear-vesting-schedule} must be excluded from the imports.
> 
> NOTE: If there are additional parameters required for calculations, which are stored in the contract's storage, you can access them using `self.get_contract()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: When using a custom {vesting-schedule} implementation, the {linear-vesting-schedule} must be excluded from the imports.

NOTE: If there are additional parameters required for calculations, which are stored in the contract's storage, you can access them using `self.get_contract()`.

Here’s an example of a vesting wallet contract with a custom {vesting-schedule} implementation, where tokens 
are vested in a number of steps.
```

        start: u64,
        duration: u64,
        cliff: u64,
    ) {
        self.total_steps.write(total_steps);
        self.ownable.initializer(beneficiary);
        self.vesting.initializer(start, duration, cliff);
    }

    impl VestingSchedule of VestingScheduleTrait<ContractState> {
        fn calculate_vested_amount(
            self: @VestingComponent::ComponentState<ContractState>,
            token: ContractAddress,
            total_allocation: u256,
            timestamp: u64,
            start: u64,
            duration: u64,
            cliff: u64,
        ) -> u256 {
            if timestamp < cliff {
                0
            } else if timestamp >= start + duration {
                total_allocation
            } else {
                let total_steps = self.get_contract().total_steps.read();
                let vested_per_step = total_allocation / total_steps.into();
                let step_duration = duration / total_steps;
                let current_step = (timestamp - start) / step_duration;
                let vested_amount = vested_per_step * current_step.into();
                vested_amount
            }
        }
    }
}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
----

```

                let vested_per_step = total_allocation / total_steps.into();
                let step_duration = duration / total_steps;
                let current_step = (timestamp - start) / step_duration;
                let vested_amount = vested_per_step * current_step.into();
                vested_amount
            }
        }
    }
}
----

=== Interface

Here is the full interface of a standard contract implementing the vesting functionality:

[,cairo]
----
#[starknet::interface]
pub trait VestingABI<TState> {
    // IVesting
    fn start(self: @TState) -> u64;
    fn cliff(self: @TState) -> u64;
    fn duration(self: @TState) -> u64;
    fn end(self: @TState) -> u64;
    fn released(self: @TState, token: ContractAddress) -> u256;
    fn releasable(self: @TState, token: ContractAddress) -> u256;
    fn vested_amount(self: @TState, token: ContractAddress, timestamp: u64) -> u256;
    fn release(ref self: TState, token: ContractAddress) -> u256;

    // IOwnable
    fn owner(self: @TState) -> ContractAddress;
    fn transfer_ownership(ref self: TState, new_owner: ContractAddress);
    fn renounce_ownership(ref self: TState);

> }

Author: Added it as well

This structure allows ownership rights of both the contract and the vested tokens to be assigned and transferred.

NOTE: Any assets transferred to this contract will follow the vesting schedule as if they were locked from the beginning of the vesting period. 
As a result, if the vesting has already started, a portion of the newly transferred tokens may become immediately releasable.

NOTE: By setting the duration to 0, it's possible to configure this contract to behave like an asset timelock that holds tokens 
for a beneficiary until a specified date.

[[vesting_schedule]]
== Vesting Schedule

The {vesting-schedule} trait that defines the logic for calculating the vested amount based on a given timestamp. This 
logic is not part of the {vesting-component}, so any contract implementing the {vesting-component} must provide its own 
implementation of the {vesting-schedule} trait.

NOTE: There's a ready-made implementation of the {vesting-schedule} trait available named {linear-vesting-schedule}. 
It incorporates a cliff period by returning 0 vested amount until the cliff ends. After the cliff, the vested amount 

> is calculated as directly proportional to the time elapsed since the beginning of the vesting schedule.

Reviewer: It might be worth showing the reader how to implement the ready-made `LinearVestingSchedule`. Maybe this can be indirectly done in `Usage`

Author: Added a sample contract that demonstrates how to use it
